Many improvements: (#63)
membrane-io/docs: src/content/docs/concepts/the-graph.mdx

---
title: The Graph
---

import Package from "../../../components/Package";
import Action from "../../../components/Action";
import Gref from "../../../components/Gref";
import Event from "../../../components/Event";

## Introduction

In Membrane, each program defines a graph API to expose its data and functionality to other programs.

You can think of the graph as objects that can be referenced by other programs, allowing you to easily compose
functionality and create useful abstractions.

For example <Package name="github" /> defines a `PullRequest` type which you can use to interact with pull requests.
You can then create a program with a `Task` type that groups a `PullRequest` and an `Issue` from e.g. Linear.

> If you're familiar with GraphQL this idea should sound familiar. In fact, we use a simpler version of GraphQL to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're familiar with GraphQL this idea should resonate. In fact, we use a simpler version of GraphQL to
```

or maybe:

```suggestion
If you know GraphQL, this concept should feel natural. In fact, we use a simpler version of GraphQL to
```

Author: Changed it to:

> If you know about GraphQL this idea should sound familiar. In fact, we use a simpler version of GraphQL to

describe and execute graph queries.

The schema of a graph can define _types_ with _fields_, _actions_, and _events_. You'll learn more about it in the
[Schema](/concepts/schema) section.

Note that sometimes we refer to "The Graph" as the combination of all your programs graphs.

## Nodes

> Nodes are instances of types in your graph. Anything that is refereceable is a node. To continue with the GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes are instances of types in your graph. Anything that is referenceable is a node. To continue with the GitHub
```

> example, a specific `Repository` is a node, but also it's name, the number of stars, as well as the "bio" of the author.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, a specific `Repository` is a node, and so are its properties - like its name, number of stars, and the author's bio."
```
